# Messaging Platform

Platform provides management and messaging interfaces for developers to develop easily their own messaging application. Management Interface is for to manage channels and its subscribers and to control accesses.


- Create public, private channel
- Bidirectional or unidirectional channel
- 30 days history log per user
- Message received notification
- Direct Message
- Emoji usage
- Online / Offline Presence
- Up to 4000 user per channel
- Up to 1 KB per message
- Attachments are managed by client applications. 
- User can get messages which are sent when user is offline.
- End to end encryption is managed by client applications.
- First tenant will have limits of 150K users, 125M messages.


## Channel Types
There are 4 types of channels.

### Public
Any authenticated user can join public channels and can post and read any message without authorization. All subscribers are both consumer and producer at the same time.

### Public Group
All authorized users of public group channels can post and read messages. All subscribers are both consumer and producer at the same time.

### Announcement
All authorized users of announcement channels can read messages, since only one or some of them can post.

### Private
Private channels have only two subscribers who can post and read messages.


## Management Interface

### Channel

#### Attributes
- name
- description
- creation date
- expire date
-

#### Methods
- List channels
- Create channel
- Delete channel
- Edit channel
- Change channel type

#### Subscriber
- Subscribe channel
- Unsubscribe channel
-

## Application Interface

### Messaging
- Send message
- Get messages
- Get channel list
- Join channel
- Mute channel

### Search
- Search message by channel
-



# Push Service

## Push Server Using Device and OS Providers' (Google / Apple / MS) Messaging Systems
Push server stands in the middle of clients and DOP providing an API to abstract push notification that liberates developers considering which platform they work on.

## Private Push Service
PPS is an isolated box on which a tcp service (websocket or custom another persistent one) is running, takes and pushes notifications generated by clients to all connected devices. PPS is composed of isolated box and client libraries for Android, iOS, Windows OS. Developers use this libraries and runs as a background daemon to get notifications pushed by server. Also clients send push notifications by help of libraries.
